README.md, before:

# vibe
VR multiplayer game

https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdB8LEZIoYuh4_tO89s2DbMT7nqyDvJGrgrrUoBquLA4XCBRA/viewform

WT: 'Eigengrau Light'

attributions
(see bottom of doc for more details about licensing etc)

Claude 3.7 (Anthropic) - coding
Grok 3 beta (X) - coding
MeshyAI - 3D modelling, textures, rigging
Suno - music
Glitch - backend
VS-Code - IDE
A-Frame (THREE.js under the hood) - VR and platform integration
[to complete] shoot_01.mp3 - 
http://www.freesoundslibrary.com - 'sonic coin sound' mp3



CONTROLS:
- Click anywhere to enable mouse look
- Press ESC to exit mouse look (not fullscreen)
- Press F to toggle fullscreen mode
- WASD/Arrow keys to move
- Shift to toggle run
- m to toggle music
- p next track

triage

1- simplified collectibles (plus sounds/textures)

2- performance version of terrain (if time, pooling of terrain chunks, cf. NPCs)

3- 

ad como key

-dev = develop new features from existing system
-f = create new feature
-i = general idea that might become feature or something developed
-b = bug
-refac = something to refactor

to do

DONE-bVR mode freezes when tilting right: refs commented out minihub?

-i optimize more fully in anticipation of less capable machines

-dev woods in only certain areas; option to decide manually as well as 'background' deployment of wooded areas from world seed.

-f bioluminescent mushrooms and, or, will 'o the wisps.

-i just one track for entire game (to keep lightweight). OK, maybe two -- since we have ambient and a lyrical.

DONE-i ambient music track: is there a term for music that does not exhaust the ear, but whose melodies and other properties find themselves welcome and even addicting for the listener?
[Yes - fatigue.]

DONE-refac adjust positions and possibly colours of ui buttons (music and menu) - i.e. out of way of and in line with other elements.

-refac port music button to menu

DONE-refac temporary 'fix' -- remove miniHud

-refac remove micro-hud as visible in default. Perhaps 'port' to menu
have commented out in a-loco.js. Also will comment out or hide in index.html

DONE-f metavibe portal

DONE-f avatars

-f dome-like rocks or plant 'bulbs', on pattern of grass instancing

-f modular articulated 'serpents'. Cf. worms of Dune. 

-i huge quarry machines and loader vehicles hauling off mysterious cubes with numbers on them (secret: farming the digits of pi 'for use in the human world -- all numbers are created here'); other ideas, naming clients after Mathematicians and mathematical concepts; quarry of prime numbers?

-i collectibles called 'vibes' and the 'kaparthy diamond', the latter where subjects can choose a behaviour to happen to all other (or targeted?) subjects by avatar name, such as floating them upward to a certain height, then dropping; or all mobs swarming, etc.
-i+ every 1 minute a new kaparthy dropped ('shipped'); then, if collected, this client has 5seconds to use, else start 1min wait again.

DONE-f gamemode -- event triggers or just timed, 'night time' when sky goes dark and perhaps the more disturbing mobs appear

-f headlights

DONE-f clouds

DONE-refac desktop mouselook DONE

DONE-f opening message for controls and goal

DONE-f simple mobile button for locomotion 

DONE-f button to access menu on mobile

DONE-f music

-f sound effects

DONE-dev pool terrain chunks

DONE -dev pool npcs

DONE-feature randomized names

-f view other players (must include ability to view VR client)

-f jump with space (menu some other button - Enter?)

-f sensitivity to gradients -- for sliding and climb-labour

-b reinstate pitch of npcs

-b mobs emerge from under terrain (avoids sudden appearance)

DONE-b npc spawning DONE

-b npc spawning and states - refine this.


**

Additional attributions info

'if you wrote the lyrics for your song(s), you own those lyrics'

You can use music created with Suno AI for commercial purposes if you have a Pro or Premier subscription, which grants you a commercial use license, but not with the Basic (free) plan. 
Here's a more detailed explanation:
Basic (Free) Plan:
If you create music using the free version of Suno, Suno retains ownership of the songs, and you are only allowed to use them for non-commercial purposes. 
Pro and Premier Plans:
If you create music while subscribed to a Pro or Premier plan, you own the songs and are granted a commercial use license, allowing you to monetize them. 
Commercial Use License:
This license allows you to distribute your songs on platforms like Spotify and Apple Music, and use them in content you post on platforms like YouTube and TikTok. 
No Retroactive Licensing:
Starting a subscription after creating songs with the free plan does not give you retroactive commercial use rights for those songs. 
Ownership of Material:
As with any time you monetize your songs, you must be the exclusive rights holder of 100% of the material.

Commit message:

pulse-gun night grass fuse fix torch

README.md, after:

# vibe
VR multiplayer game

https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdB8LEZIoYuh4_tO89s2DbMT7nqyDvJGrgrrUoBquLA4XCBRA/viewform

WT: 'Eigengrau Light'

attributions
(see bottom of doc for more details about licensing etc)

Claude 3.7 (Anthropic) - coding
Grok 3 beta (X) - coding
MeshyAI - 3D modelling, textures, rigging
Suno - music
Glitch - backend
VS-Code - IDE
A-Frame (THREE.js under the hood) - VR and platform integration
[to complete] shoot_01.mp3 - 
http://www.freesoundslibrary.com - 'sonic coin sound' mp3



CONTROLS:
- Click anywhere to enable mouse look
- Press ESC to exit mouse look (not fullscreen)
- Press F to toggle fullscreen mode
- WASD/Arrow keys to move
- Shift to toggle run
- m to toggle music
- p next track

triage

1- -dev projectile pulse (light kick to other players and npcs)

2- -dev leaderboard vibes (distance travelled?)

3- -dev woods in only certain areas; option to decide manually as well as 'background' deployment of wooded areas from world seed.

ad como key

-dev = develop new features from existing system
-f = create new feature
-i = general idea that might become feature or something developed
-b = bug
-refac = something to refactor

to do

-f sync night mode across clients.

-f quake style portal effect

-f asteroid showers

-f rain

-b night and day mode npcs -- with correct swarming of clients

DONE-refac simplified collectibles (plus sounds/textures)

DONE-bVR mode freezes when tilting right: refs commented out minihub?

DONE-i optimize more fully in anticipation of less capable machines

DONE -dev performance version of terrain (if time, pooling of terrain chunks, cf. NPCs)

-f bioluminescent mushrooms and, or, will 'o the wisps.

DONE-i just one track for entire game (to keep lightweight). OK, maybe three -- since we have ambient and a lyrical.

DONE-i ambient music track: is there a term for music that does not exhaust the ear, but whose melodies and other properties find themselves welcome and even addicting for the listener?
[Yes - fatigue.]

DONE-refac adjust positions and possibly colours of ui buttons (music and menu) - i.e. out of way of and in line with other elements.

-refac port music button to menu

DONE-refac temporary 'fix' -- remove miniHud

DONE-refac remove micro-hud as visible in default. Perhaps 'port' to menu
have commented out in a-loco.js. Also will comment out or hide in index.html

DONE-f metavibe portal

DONE-f avatars

-f dome-like rocks or plant 'bulbs', on pattern of grass instancing

-f modular articulated 'serpents'. Cf. worms of Dune. 

-i huge quarry machines and loader vehicles hauling off mysterious cubes with numbers on them (secret: farming the digits of pi 'for use in the human world -- all numbers are created here'); other ideas, naming clients after Mathematicians and mathematical concepts; quarry of prime numbers?

DONE-i collectibles called 'vibes' and the 'kaparthy diamond', the latter where subjects can choose a behaviour to happen to all other (or targeted?) subjects by avatar name, such as floating them upward to a certain height, then dropping; or all mobs swarming, etc.
-i+ every 1 minute a new kaparthy dropped ('shipped'); then, if collected, this client has 5seconds to use, else start 1min wait again.

DONE-f gamemode -- event triggers or just timed, 'night time' when sky goes dark and perhaps the more disturbing mobs appear

DONE-f headlights [TORCH AT NIGHT]

DONE-f clouds

DONE-refac desktop mouselook DONE

DONE-f opening message for controls and goal

DONE-f simple mobile button for locomotion 

DONE-f button to access menu on mobile

DONE-f music

DONE-f sound effects

DONE-dev pool terrain chunks

DONE -dev pool npcs

DONE-feature randomized names

-f view other players (must include ability to view VR client)

-f jump with space (menu some other button - Enter?)

-f sensitivity to gradients -- for sliding and climb-labour

-b reinstate pitch of npcs

-b mobs emerge from under terrain (avoids sudden appearance)

DONE-b npc spawning DONE

-b npc spawning and states - refine this.


**

Additional attributions info

'if you wrote the lyrics for your song(s), you own those lyrics'

You can use music created with Suno AI for commercial purposes if you have a Pro or Premier subscription, which grants you a commercial use license, but not with the Basic (free) plan. 
Here's a more detailed explanation:
Basic (Free) Plan:
If you create music using the free version of Suno, Suno retains ownership of the songs, and you are only allowed to use them for non-commercial purposes. 
Pro and Premier Plans:
If you create music while subscribed to a Pro or Premier plan, you own the songs and are granted a commercial use license, allowing you to monetize them. 
Commercial Use License:
This license allows you to distribute your songs on platforms like Spotify and Apple Music, and use them in content you post on platforms like YouTube and TikTok. 
No Retroactive Licensing:
Starting a subscription after creating songs with the free plan does not give you retroactive commercial use rights for those songs. 
Ownership of Material:
As with any time you monetize your songs, you must be the exclusive rights holder of 100% of the material.
